\chapter{Conclusion}
\label{chap:conclusion}

In conclusion, we successfully created a DSL that generates human-readable code for a NodeJS server and a ReactJS client. With the use of declarations, the compiler can easily identify the code for each tier in the app. The DSL also abstracts many of the low-level implementation details required in modern web apps, resulting in faster development without the need for boilerplate code. We demonstrated this by building simple Todo and Chatroom apps that required only 15% of the lines of code needed in NodeJS and ReactJS. The compiler's type-checking feature identifies impedance mismatch related problems at compile time, leading to more efficient web apps. Using the techniques explained for generating IR and app code, we managed to make the compiler compile to TypeScript human-readable code. Moreover, by leveraging template engines, we managed to make our compiler framework agnostic. The DSL generates real-time apps by default using SSE. Also, we have shown that the language can interop with TypeScript and make use of existing tools in the JavaScript/TypeScript ecosystem by developing the Kanban app. This makes it more adoptable than previous multitier programming languages. The declarative approach implemented in the language has made its code more readable and easier to debug compared to other multitier languages that use annotations. Additionally, we have implemented tools such as expressive error messages in the compiler and syntax highlighting to enhance the developer experience. Finally, we demonstrated in our user experiment that the DSL has a low learning curve.

## Future Work

The DSL allows for the creation of simple queries, but it cannot implement more complex queries. For instance, some apps may require a query that paginates the data list returned by the `FindMany` query. However, the DSL cannot paginate data by limiting the number of records that a query can return. Additionally, bulk operations are not supported, meaning that the DSL lacks the feature to create, update, or delete multiple records simultaneously.

As previously mentioned, the DSL's current compilation to an SPA client presents limitations in terms of SEO. To overcome this obstacle, it would be advantageous for the DSL to incorporate SSR/SSG mechanisms for UI components. This addition would allow search engines to index and crawl the website's content, boosting its visibility and search ranking.

From the user experiment conducted, we found that some of the notations used in the DSL were confusing to some participants. While some notations, such as the `@` and `connect` notation, could have been clearer to participants if they had received documentation on the DSL before the experiment, others, like the `<>` notation, which is used in many languages to specify type parameters, were particularly confusing. In addition, defining one-to-many relations proved difficult for some participants. To improve the DSL's syntax, we should consider creating a new notation to define query and UI component types. Additionally, we could make the `@relation` attribute take named parameters to make it clearer.
